Meeting Title: Module 2: Analyzing Market Demand and Volume
Date: Aug 25

Transcript:
 
Them: Welcome back, everybody. This is module two of Wand Insights. And in this module, I'll be talking about how to analyze demand and volume in land markets. So before I go any further, I want you to reevaluate what makes a landmark worth targeting. Okay? I want you to think about the markets that you've worked in the past and ask yourself how you arrived to choosing that market. A common problem I'm seeing right now. And this is with both new and old window investors, is a lot of these people are just working in the same markets as each other. They're just in one herd in these specific markets. Let's just take for example, Christie County. There's so many magnificent that have touched that place. It's like that. That has the most touch land investing market that exists in the United States. Okay? A lot of these people go there because other people are doing it. So they should assume market demand is great there. It's like the best place to be. But that is just not true in any way because they kind of. The horrible market. I would never buy land there anymore. I would never work there anymore. Just goes to prove the fact that.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: Her mentality is not a great strategy for market selection. Okay, when you're choosing a market, I want you to ask yourself these questions. Is it a growing area? Is it scarce? Are people consistently buying land here, and would I feel comfortable buying and holding on to land here? Most people, if you ask them the question, are you comfortable with owning half a million dollars worth of land and Dosti County? They will say no. There's nothing going on out there. Nobody's moving out there. It's just the desert in the middle of nowhere. Now, if you talk to somebody about investing $500,000 in land maybe just outside Dallas, They're going to be a little more comfortable with that investment because they know it's a secure area. They know that expansion is inevitable in that area. So that's yourself these questions and just reevaluate what makes a land market we're targeting. Okay. So now I'm going to bring up demand and how to analyze it, both generally and in Land Insights. Okay, so one of the most important definitions that you need to know when you talk about demand just generally and with Land Insights is sell through it. So this is a term we coins with Land Insights when we launch back in July. And sultry is the amount of sole properties compared to the amount of available listings in a given time. So sell through rate is a calculated percentage. So that population is the number of listings sold divided by the number of listings for sale currently active on the market for sale any time stopped by 100 negative percentage. So let's give you some examples. So a 6 month sell through rate, also known as 6 month str, is 25 listings sold in the last 6 months divided by 50 listings currently for sale in the market. That yields a 50% SDR. Okay, now let me give you another one. One year salary rate also is 1 USDR 75 listings sold in the last one year divided by 50 was things for sale 35 divided divided by 50 yields a 150% one year str. Y'all talk about pending using pendings that are sold the Pennings also under contract. So Penny's authority 5 with things currently under contract pending divided by 100 listings for sale that take 5% pending sell through rate. Now let's talk about sell through rate criteria. I just gave you a bunch of sells to red calculations and then landed sites. We track a handful so someone on the track is pending salary. Rate one month. Sell three months. Sell three, rate six months. Sell three and 12 months. We give you all these because you might want to analyze it one way and another way. And we just want to give you the option to calculate any way you want. Okay? Now, I usually say don't analyze one uncealth rate. Because it's skewed, and it's skewed because there's a lag time in the MLS with sales pops. So when property sells, it usually takes like slightly over a month for it to show up on any databases. So I never recommend tracking one month's salty rate just because it's going to be skewed. So we Recommend Tracking pending 3 months, 6 month to 12 month. Now, people always ask me, what's your minimum requirements? And I hate this question because it's all relative. Okay, don't live by these statistics, but I'm just going to give you something to work off of but do not live by these. People tend to live by these. And that's just lazy statistical analysis. Everything is relative to the area. So if you're in Colorado, I would only be comparing yourself to rate data to counties or zip codes in Colorado. Do not compare it to something in Pennsylvania. Those are not comparable. It's all relative stay relative to the state that you're analyzing. So some states are going to have a lot of low sell through rates, and that's because maybe it's nondisclosure. So in Texas, some of your data doesn't get through to the mls. After it sells because they only have to disclose the sales or the price. So your sell rates across the board in Texas are going to be much higher than a disclosure, say, like Colorado. Okay, so it's relative to do not live by these statistics. I'm just giving you these for something to work off of. This show is a strong demand in a disclosure market. In some disclosure markets, you won't even see these for most of the counties. So it's all relative. Keep that in mind. So in a disclosure market, we want to see a minimum of 10% pending salt rate, 30%, 3 months L3 rate, 60%, 6 months, all 3 months, 100% sell through rate. So I 100%, 12 months sell through rate is saying that if there's 50 properties currently for sale, if they are selling over the last 12 months. It'll take 12 months to sell that full inventory. So in addition to sell through rate, there's another way to track demand in that method is based on market. So in Land Insights, we've aggregated all this. It's really hard to do it without Land Insights because that's a lot of data to aggregate because we're looking at every single comp. Basically what we're doing with days on market is we're tracking the average days it takes to sell properties in that area. So if there's 20 properties that sold last one year, we're tracking the average amount of days on market for each one of those sales to sell. So these screenshots here are from the bottom of Red Bin. If you go on Redfin and look at sold comps, you can see that they have a timeline of how long it took to sell the property. So the one with the green thumb. It shows that it was listed on February 8, 2024, went under contract February 9, 2024, and then sold on 27th. So literally under contract in one day. That's good. That shows high demand. But there's this other one with the red thumb down showing it was listed March 14, 2020. 3. They dropped the price in July, and then it finally went under contract about a year later, February 15th. So this shows that there wasn't a whole lot of demand to this property, like, not a lot of people checking it out. Just wasn't that many buyers out there. Nobody was interested at that price. So if we're seeing consistencies of long sales cycles, like over eight months of your consistency or zip code, then you can assume there's not a lot of demand there. So accelerates one great way to track demand. But days of market is another great way to attract demand. In Land Insights, we are aggregating all the sales comps over the specified time for data market and we're calculating average. So if there was two properties that sold one at 100 days of sell and 150 days of sell or average number is going to be 75. If you don't have Highland insights. You can, like, manually calculate it. It's just going to take you forever. You can, like, visually scan how long it took to sell some comps and you can get a slight idea of demand, but you're not really going to get there with Outlanded. Sites. Okay, so this is the data that we show on Land Insights. We have averages on market for one month, three months, six month and one year. And again, it's average numbers of days for listing to sell on the time span that we gave you. Okay. Now let's talk about how to analyze volume, demand. And volume, they go hand in hand. They are equally important to each other. When you're analyzing market statistics, When I say volume, we're talking about quantities. So quantities of for sale, Quantities pending. Quantities sold. That's a volume. Demand is the rate at which they sell. Volume is the quantities. Okay, so in rural markets, we like to see between 15 and 160 total listings for sale land specifically, and rural markets are stuff that's one to two hours outside of metro. So we like to see between 15 and 160 total listings for sale land specifically, and rule markets are stuff that's 12 hours outside of metro. Or maybe more. And, you know, people are buying land out there to escape the city life, or they have, like, an odd job out there, or they just like to have bigger acreage at cheaper price per acre. And we've noticed that when you go over, like, 160 listings, you start to see symptoms of too much land for sale and too little demand. So take, for example, Apache county in the photo to the right. There's 796 land listings currently for sale. Market. That is just way too much for a rule. Market the numbers of this rule because we're outside Tucson, we're outside Phoenix, so there's really not a lot going on out there. But with populated in mixed metro markets, we're looking at 15 to 400. And we'd bump up that for sale amount because There might be 400 listings. But there's so much people in that small area, so much to the body land like you have so many more buyers out here than you doing those rule markets because the population is so much higher. So because of these population differences in mixed metros and metros compared to rural markets, we're able to bump up that, that volume criteria. So again, going back to how I said volume and demand is hand in hand. We can't just choose a market based on one of those, we have to have both. So it's important to verify high sell through rates, regardless of the quality of availability listings. So in a mixed metro market, we want to see between 15 and 400 total listings for sale, but we also want to see like a 100% one year sell to rate. So we have to stack those filters and it's easy to do in Land Insights and it's like somewhat easy to do on your own, but mainly that just makes it a little easier for you. So going back to how I said demand and volume go hand in hand Land Insight makes it easy to cross reference so we can stack as many filters as we want. There's 43 different data points we have for every single county and zip code, so you can literally stack any filter you want on top of each other. So in the photo of the right you can choose greater than 25 available listings and less than 160 label listings. And you can hit that criteria for your rural markets or you can bump it up if you want for the mixed metros. Okay. And then you can also filter your sell through rates. You can filter all those minimums that I brought up. So you stack them and just boil it down to a handful of counties that meet all those requirements. Again, I'm warning you of relativity. Okay? Specifically state relativity. You will not see similar statistics in every state. And it's because of these three reasons below. Non disclosures. So some states are not required to disclose the sales price and the date it was sold to the public. And because of that, MLS databases aren't going to show a lot of sales. Some of it goes through, but we don't capture all of that. So in places like Textures, you're going to see really love sell through rates across the board. Okay, state population, some state time. More people than others, and that's going to affect the statistics. Some areas are going to have high volume across the board, and you need to adjust your filters because of that. States like California. Population is absurd. It's like Florida. Okay? Statewide mls. MLS rules and regulations are different in different states. Okay. Another reason why you can't compare one county in one stage, another gun, another state. You need to compare your counties and zip codes to thousands of codes in that same state. You cannot compare it to other places. Do not do that. And again, do not have specific criteria for every county. Start your search at the state level and filter your search and relativity to all the counties in that state. Okay. Some states have more population, which leads to more volume. Some states have more buyers, which leads to more str. You need to compare it on that state level because it's changing at every state. State relativity, follow it. All right, I'll see you guys in the. Next module. 