Meeting Title: Module 3: Using Price Data to Find the Best Land Markets 
Date: Aug 25

Transcript:
 
Me: Like.  
Them: Welcome back, everybody. This is module three. In this module, we'll be talking about how to analyze price in land markets. So before you start analyzing prices with markets you may go after, you need to understand your business model. So if you're flipping, wholesaling, double closing, you need to realize the types of markets that exist. And these markets are rural recreational markets. These are like 2 hours plus outside of the metro and they generally have the lowest prices. There's rural areas that are commutable to metros, so maybe like 30 to 45 minutes outside major metros. These are going to have mid tier pricing and there's metro and mixed metro counties. And these are going to have the highest prices. So understand these before you start analyzing prices with both land insights and just in general. Now, if you're a subdivider and titler, you're looking to get into maybe minor subdivides, you need to take this to another level. So not only do we have these specific markets, real commute, metro, mix metro, we also have the price per acre gap that we need to consider. So when we're doing a miter subdivide, we need to see that big acreage pieces are selling at a very low price breaker and smaller. Gear visor circling very high price break. We understand that jump into this maybe your flipper wholesale double closure. Look into doing subdivides then land inside to be a great way to start analyzing those markets and choosing area to work. And so let's talk about land insights pricing data. Pricing is a very difficult thing to pull off without any software because we're looking at every single comp that exists in aggregating that data. So it's very hard to get a rough estimate of what stuff is trading at without any database that gives you that pricing data. So target me to give you any methods without an insights. Because frankly, it's not worth your time. So Inline Insights, we track median price. So we're looking at median price over certain time lengths. And then we're looking at medium pending price to be an active price. And these all can be used to evaluate these markets. We also have price per acre, so a medium active price breaker being sold. And then we give you ranges. So if the lowest listed 10 to 20 acre is $10,000, in the highest list of 10, 20 acres is $100,000, you'll have a minute at 10,000 on max, 100,000. So you can see what that county is compromised of as far as pricing. So you can see medium and you can see that range. So you get, like, a very good image in your head of what pricing looks like in that market. So one of the big problems land investors have is finding homogeneous price counties. And what I mean by homogenous price counties is a five acre in the northeast section of the county, trading the same price breaker as a 5 acre in the Southwest location of the county. We want to see the same acreage is trading at the same price right here in every region of the county. That means that everything's the same. It just makes your life easier. Make pricing easy in areas like let's say San Bernardino County, California. We have some of like the LA metros in that county and then we have a desert like 100 miles away. So we don't have homogeneous price in there because a five acre in that city area is going to trade so much higher than a 5 bigger. Than the desert area. So it's really hard for us to pull that county and figure out pricing there. We want our lives to be easy, so we want to choose areas that are trading at the same price breaker in every region. Okay, so what Land Insights. We've come up with a calculation that allows us to find those homogeneously priced counties. So the calculation that we came up with to calculate homogeneous pricing is called the Gene Index. In the GENIE index captures how well the price per acre of a data set hugs the mean value. So in simple terms, we're saying how well the price all stays in one place, basically. So I wanted to make a range. The genius calculating how well it's about the same price in Land Insights Union Index goes on a range of 0 to 100. It caps out at 100. So the lower it is on the scale, the more homogeneous the pricing is, so the more close the price breakage is. Revenue will come. And that is too much stress pricing. So zero is assuming absolute homogenous pricing. It's like the best, the easiest place to price possible, but 100 is going to be the hardest. It's like everything's all over the place. All right, so let's look at the table to the right. 1.2acres gene index. And there's three different counties I pulled in California. And the state is coming from Land insights. So county one is San Bernardino. Right. Arduini index is 23.31. So three low. It's so uncomfortable pricing. And if you pull that county up on a map and look at the satellite image overlay, you'll see this, like, primarily desert, and then there's a little bit of city in there. And that's what's keeping it from being an even lower genie is that city. Because one to two acres in that city is going to price a lot higher than stuff in the desert. Okay, now we want to San Diego County. It's a pretty high GENIE index in San Diego county is like half city, half desert. So the desert south trading pretty cheap, and then the city stops trading pretty high and there's all that stuff in between. So because of the environment change, our GENIE index is. Going higher. Now Fresno county is even higher. And if you pull up Fresno county on a satellite image overlay, you'll see that it's city agriculture and mountains. So there's just a crazy amount of changing terrain. There's expensive agriculture fields, there's cityscape, and there's, like, steep. Mountains. So our pricing is all over the place. This is not homogeneous. This is the hardest kind of price out of these three. So if I was going to price accounting, would you? San Bernardino. San Bernardino might not have a lot of demand. So maybe I'll go after, maybe after. Because demands better in San Diego or Fresno. But we don't know. We haven't pulled the demand in the volume. Now, one thing to know. This is very, very important. Do not analyze Genie for 0.2 to 100 acres. You need to keep your acreage ranges small because as acreage goes up, so it is price and we're calculating. How well it hugs the mean value. Okay, how well, we stay in a certain price. So we could be pulling 0.2. 100 acres. Is sales price of 100 acres and sells for 0.2. So it's not a statistical representation at all of Genie, because as Edward goes up, obviously prices. But when we're like I want to do waker in price about the same in that acreage range 5 to 10, a little worse, but about the same. 10 to 20 and about the same. Do not ever use Genie on 0.2 100. It is worthless data. If you're confused about that, look up GENIE index try to understand the statistical meaning to it, but it is useless. Do not use it. 1 0.2 100 acres, only small acreage ranges. Now I just brought up a lot of pricing calculations and always analyze pricing. One thing to know is you need a large sample size to make any accurate representation of pricing in that area. If you have like two comps supporting a low genie, that is not enough to say that it's homogeneously priced. You need at least 10 if you're in a county to accurately say it's a low GENIE and homogeneously priced area. Obviously, the more you have in your sample size, the more accurate your estimates are going to be. So do not make any assumptions off of small sample sizes. Make sure those are large sample sizes. Okay? Now let's talk about how to find good subdivided markets. So maybe you've already done subdivides. Have you done minor subdivides? Minor sub advice. Maybe you have done something about your life. You've only split land. This is applicable to everybody. So let's say you wanted to find a good subdivide market in Texas. The first step is understanding your statewide planning exemption, especially when you want to do a minor subdivide when you don't want a lot of rules you have to pass through. Okay. You want to make sure it's a good investment that you can do the subdivide you're dreaming of. So in Texas, the statewide planning exemption, as long as you're outside of city limits or outside of the ETJ, as long as you stay over 10 acres. You do not have to go through any planning requirements. So let's intros Texas and you want to do a subdivide of big piece and one attack. So the way you can use Land Insights with the pricing data to find a good market to do that in is you would want to review the sole price per acre for 10 to 20 acre ranges and 4100 acre ranges. Ideally, you want to see a big difference in the price per acre between those two acreage ranges. So when we're looking for markets to do a minor sub dividend, we're looking for at least a two times difference between the price breakers ranges of 10 to 20 and 40 100. So we want to see like 1020 trading at 4000 breaker and want to see 4100 trading at 2000 per acre. And ideally an even bigger gap between those two and those can qualify market for a good minor sub. Divide. So some markets, like Price Breaker, doesn't really change between the two. In other words, it's a drastic change. So we're looking for areas where it's just an absolutely drastic change. So it makes sense to do a value add some line it up and sell it off, and then we can stack. Land Insights filters and we can look for that difference and also look for high demand, high volume or low volume. Low volume and just cherry pick your absolute ideal niche market so you could pick the very best market to flip subdivided properties in it using stack Land Insights filters. So it's very valuable. And I see a subdividing being much more easier to conduct with pricing and our demand volume tools within our Land Insights database. 