Meeting Title: Understanding Data Points & the Gini Index
Date: Aug 25

Transcript:
 
Them: Hi, this is Arieland Insights. And in this video, we're going to talk about our data points in the platform, just to give you a brief overview, some distinctions, and then ultimately go through the GENIE index. At this point, we've gone over the use case of majority of these in terms of when you would want to use them and for what purpose and in what data set. Now, in terms of understanding these tooltips data points, we are not going to believe that in the platform itself we're going to go ahead and go over to our course. And in our course, we are going to find our data legend. So our D legend will be specifically pertinent when we're trying to understand exactly what we're looking at. And we do not want to be trying to conduct market research without taking a look at this from time to time just reminding ourselves exactly of the reasoning behind each data point. The logic behind each data point. You'll notice that if we look at this data legend, there are certain groupings so from active data sold really attending self reconcil one yourself Rate is right. So these are coupled just in regards to kind of like grouping that these data points generally sit within. Self rating is all going to be paired together as a market Median data points in terms of price, median terms of acreage, median terms of price per acre. We'll see the active impending price breaker as well. Those are the minimum and maximums. So just keep that in mind. We'll also look at the minimum maximum price breaker over range of time, so those are sold at data points. And lastly, we'll talk about our GENIE here in a moment, but this is going to be very useful as well when we're doing our data analysis. So just keep in mind that there are a lot of folks who kind of conflate cell 3 based on market. It's very important that we distinguish between these two, Cell three is always going to be an active representation of what is currently on the market against what has sold in the past X time frame, right? One month, three months, six to 12 months, and ultimately that is giving. Of what will happen that market over the course of the same time frame but in the future. So If I see one month sell through rate is 40%, I can expect in one month that is also going to be 40%. Now that is a little bit of an exaggeration. One month, it tends to be the only example in the self radio points that can vary a little bit too much. I tend to use an example. But if three months self weight is 30%, well it doesn't always mean that one month it was 10%, right? That doesn't mean that every single month was exactly 10% of money that one month was 22 months. For five, it might be that all the properties sold were in a single month, instead of month might be 30% itself. The average year is zero. And so it's really important to just keep in mind that this is an accurate representation over the course of time, whereas on the days on market data points. We're talking about the average number of days on market for the comps in a timeframe. So, for example, if we're talking about the comps that have sold in the past three months, Technically, even though they do add towards a high sell rate, they could have been sitting on that market for 400, 500 days. And that is the reason why these two should be used separately, but also with data. So just keep those distinctions in mind because they're important as you're analyzing information, we've already talked about the importance of medium enterprise break rate s in terms of smaller data sets. But where things really get spicy is what we're looking at are GENIE index. So the GENIE index is index that helps us understand how much in 80 within our pricing data. You'll read this, I'll go ahead and read it as well, and we can kind of dig it deeper. But the DNA index measures the extent to which distribution of sales, basically pricebreaker, deviates from a quote, unquote, perfectly equal distribution. And so it's a perfectly equal distribution over the game. About zero. Zero just means that there's no difference for looking at, let's just say a trend line. Well, the further data points get from that trend line, the more variance there is. The closer those data points give that timeline, the less variance there is. So just imagine if you're looking at a visual in your head, there's a trendline, and all the data points are switched right onto that trend liner as close as possible. That's going to be a gene index of zero. So perfect equality. While in contrast, if all of those data points are really far from that trend line, we're going to be seeing a very large number have the max here being 100, which implies perfect inequality, basically meaning that pricing in this market is variable, is very all over the place and it'll be difficult at best. So when we're analyzing genie, just understand that the ultimate goal here is to be looking at a low number over the course of a long time frame. That is going to indicate that there's a lot of data that's been calculated. And at the same time, if it's a low number, that means that there's a lot of consistency in that price rigor. Now, the worst case scenario is also the opposite there. The shorter the time frame. Right. The less data. And so gene over one month is going to generally be the least useful, especially if it's at a high number. We're never going to want to market in that area. Now, when would aging of one month be beneficial to look at? Let's gonna be when we're looking at a very high volume market. Generally. This is also with a page ranges, but it also goes for zip codes. Right. Those smaller data sets. It's very beneficial. If we're seeing that the entire market is moving almost monthly or every two months, three months. This is gonna be something that we would want to leverage. Right. The genie. One month is going to be very important. For those fast moving markets. Not every investor will work in those areas. Generally we're talking metros, coastlines, things like that. But it is still useful to know. If you have any questions onto these data points or the genie in the roles they play, you can always reach out to us@howelevitesights.com or reach out to us at the bottom right. Of your platform. Before I let you go, let's go ahead and hop over to the platform, take a look at the tooltip, and just keep an eye out on these unique data points. I'm going to actually add them to my data, my tooltip here, and show you exactly when I would use them. If we hop over to accounting that we like. Can we find ourselves in an average way for change? Let's just say as an example here, I found Madison County, Montana. Great county from the initial Lance right. Just exaggerated here. But once I find this county, I'm ultimately going to want to look at as follow data set medivisic code in terms of what this guy has to offer. I'm going to be trying to analyze median information, maybe also GENI information. And so I mentioned that one year could be the most beneficial. So let's go ahead and look at that. Let's also bring in a couple of these others just to kind of get an idea. Of what's happened over the course of the year. So we can see that over the course of the year. This is just about right in the middle in terms of variance, who are very, very in price breaker now, the huge zip code. So just keep that in mind. If we really wanted to dial down, we could open this up in terms of the zip code view, and this gene is only going to become more useful. Now, if we're looking at five to 10 acres across the county and we're looking at six months, we can see that actually decreases quite a bit. I mean, this gene is getting impressively better over time, and then you'll notice over three months. In the past few months specifically, the gene has dropped incredible amount as well. So all things considered, yes, the cell right here is pretty low for 5cm overall. Is it doing well? Really in terms of suffering, but when it comes to genie, oh, my, this thing is really easy to price. It's probably going to be one of the more consistent markets you'll find. And if we ever needed to double down on certain markets, this one's going to be really quick. Opportunity to market to now. I will say sometimes prioritizing my GENIE is going to be very beneficial giving them a mail route, especially if you feel like you're late in the deadline. In that case, you can always go to your markets. Whatever markets you may have chosen in here, you should be able to use the GENIE to help you prioritize as well. So whether that's fine apic range where you're saying, hey, is this low enough for me to consider prioritizing it? Or if you're looking at a zip code, the same concept is true. The one thing that I consider with zip codes is that you're just going to be looking at less comps, so keep that in mind. The gene is going to be a little bit lower on the zip codes and on the Lake Bridge ranges. It's just no cost. So that's something to consider. Don't be fooled by a super low genie. If there's only four properties. That might be a good sign, but you'll definitely want to dig deeper into just profit cross referencing Redfin or Zillow just to make sure that that configure that you're going to be seeing is across the ends of code and roll it. 