Meeting Title: Leveraging the Market Data Table
Date: Aug 25

Transcript:
 
Them: Insights. In this video, we're going to talk in depth about our market data table and we have a lot of questions from our users in terms of how leverage it properly in comparison to using the market research map. We're going to do my markets map. There's benefits in using both in tandem and not siloing yourself to either the map alone or the table alone. So just keep that in mind. We didn't always have this map. Our earlier users will remember that we only had a table we'd have any visualization to that data. So now that we've got something to actually look at, a lot of our if you're visual like me, a lot of our users are going to find that this is extremely intuitive to look at. The caveat here though, is that sometimes we feel like this the stable kind of blends into the background and then we don't use it as much as we use the map. Now the vice versa also might be the case, but again, I'M going to show you why using these in tandem is very important. So if we go ahead and look at our map and we can start trying to figure out where we want to start our market research, once we find a place that we want to market to, we want to start investigating it in terms of marketing, we'll actually double down into that state. Now, this isn't necessarily a rule of thumb. It's a recommendation in order to make sure that you're looking at states and markets that have some consistency to them. If I'm comparing the texts, I identified a lot of inconsistencies, but they may fly under the radar if I'm not considering them right. Sell 350% were hired at 6 months. Might look completely different in Texas, maybe no counties show up, whereas in Michigan, all of them show up. So you just want to keep that in mind as you do your market research. Now that I'm looking at Michigan, this is fantastic. If I wanted to, I haven't made tooltips available, and I wanted to just do some quick lights. I can make this full screen and can hop right into looking at these counties, doing my analysis if I see fit. Now, in this particular example, I'm going to always make sure I have the data set, the data points that I like to see when I'm doing this kind of broad analysis, but the nice thing is here I'm able to quickly glance at what I want to look at or what I qualify as quote unquote good, so long as I have my hatred drink selected and my heat not selected. So I'm going to go ahead and do that. Now I'm going to go ahead and select maybe 5 to 10,000 acres in which you can set as large properties. And then I'm also going to go ahead and target software. I want to see where things are moving the fastest. Seems to be more inside of the state, so I'm just going to start here and Ionia county looking here, Penny sell rates decent the three month and the six month is holding strong and the digital markets pretty strong as well. So I'm going to actually take a look at this county in particular. Now. I do want to look for other companies as well. So before I just double down. What do I do? Well, I want to start filtering out other counties that kind of. They act as noisier things that just don't hold, optimize standard. This is one of the largest issues that people have, is they don't have standards for what good looks like when they're doing. Market research. So keep this in mind. Now, in order to double down on the good in this in the state, how many women start looking for counties that can qualify as good? Well, to do that, to have those standards in place. So I do encourage you to spend some time coming up with standards of parameters, guidelines, just filters that ultimately help you distinguish a good market for a bad one. I'm not going to focus on zip codes just yet. In this video, we're going to talk mainly about counties and how to use the table for that purpose. And when we're here in the county view, you'll come down to the table. You can actually start using this to either filter or sort as you'd like. Sorting will help you determine what the entire state looks like in the entire county. Looks like feeling as if codes and in this case, if I just sort for six months health rate. You'll start to see there are actually outliers. And bodies are just not performing. We want to get rid of that. So that's where filters come into play. Now, there's a couple of things to understand about filters is one is you'll want a filter that is pertinent to a very important data point for you. Everybody has a different data points. That they feel passionate about. Some people feel passionate about having an at least a minimum on active properties. That might mean adding a minimum. You'll see that that actively changes what we look at. Matter of fact would have just been shaved off the list. So this is an easy way to start disqualifying counties. Disqualifying counties that you were just not happy about or that just don't fit the bill for what you're trying to target. Now, there are some rules of thumb that I do like to mention when it comes to filters. The first is that as you add more and more filters, you will continue to narrow the data on your map. This is why I find that it's very important to only have filters to the most important data sets or, excuse me, data points to you and your business. I would not be having a filter to every single data point because ultimately I'm going to be restricted to just a very very small subset of counties or markets, depending on if I'm looking at Cal users or zip codes. In this case, the filter that I added for active use is quite beneficial for me. A ton of data from a table that's not too narrowing my opinion. However, I did want to include something like Ione County I could make that battlefield a little bit more broad. Now, the other rule of thumb that I'd like to mention when talking about filters is just the idea of variance. Some of these data points are very particular. I don't know how anyone would know that a certain amount of comps is the right number. I would say that if you were to add in 10, for example, it's solely in three months, you probably have a really good read on the market you're looking at, and that's why you might choose that. Otherwise, I don't find that most folks would benefit from a minimum in terms of sold. Comps I find that that's going to be relative to what you're looking at, the actual market. And you can make that judgment call at that point. You do want to make decisions that are mostly back to my data, obviously. So the judgment call I had tend to leave up to how I feel about the volume. In that market. And I tend to use the data to make decisions for me when it comes to how quickly market might be moving or how that market might be priced. So I tend to use filters to distinguish the best case scenario for more ambiguous data points. Well, what does that mean? Well, in ambiguous data, point might look like self rate might look like data market. The reason why I use the term ambiguous is because in this particular data point there's a lot of variance. 10% might be fairly close to 15%. But what is really the difference is it really a huge decline in demand is really huge implant demand. We just can't say for certain it exaggerated example is what's the difference between 90% sultry and 6 months and 100? If you've got a deal in either of those counties, will you really feel the difference of that 10%? And the answer is generally no, you won't, especially if you have a great deal right. You've added the market, you've added the property data that you're marketing to, and you've got an appropriate price. The last thing to do is sell at a good price, and that's competitive. And make sure your marketing is very competitive as well. If all of that lines up that 10% variance between ID and 100 really won't make a difference at all. Now, I'm not going to be a stickler on that logic. Of course there's going to be folks out there who's saying no, I absolutely need to hit 100% six months. And that's totally fine. This is where our individuality and our respective businesses are going to shine. Based on our own preferences. So just be open to open and making those decisions as you progress in your journey. Related Insights Andrew Business. So what is it going to look like if I play a filter on salt free? Well, if I want to say, hey, I'm cool with anything above, let's just say 35% or higher for six months. Let's actually go up to 40. If I say that, you'll see how many calories are actually shave off this list. And this may be one of many filters that I've gotten on this data set. One thing to remember is that these filters are limiting what you see. So if you're stacking filters, that's ultimately going to be harder on you to find good markets. Now, they might be the best of the best markets, and that's fine. There's going to be a point where that comes back to push it back up against the wall. It limits the ability to find volume when you're trying to hit your marketing numbers. In this case, I put a filter of filter 4 or higher for self rate and 6 months. But this is one instance where I mentioned ambiguity. So here one thing I like to account for is is that variance in cell three and what that mount what I might assign to that value. Now of course this is going to become a conversation risk, color or preference definitions of good, but ultimately I do tend to cater to areas of 5 to 10%, so that can be judgmental. If every other filter or data point lines up who I like to see, I'm okay with myself being off by 10% as long as I'm the one making that judgment call right now. Mike might come out of a or send them sending me that county for review based on maybe falling short. But I don't want to absolutely limit myself from either even never seeing that market if there's a chance that I might like it. So maybe we go down to 35%. And now you'll see that there were actually counties, right? Under that 40 mark that we would have never seen. Because they were just too close and not enough. So those are some ways that I would leverage the market data table. In this particular example, we can still see a ton of markets. So just keep in mind these filters are meant to help you and guide you into finding markets that are performing well. They're not meant to limit your view. So just some other useful information to Nokia's sorting will always be very helpful because it'll help you distinguish where you should be putting your filters. You can come in here and see. Certain data points will fall off after a certain percentage. Maybe that's what you use. Create a filter. That's a good way to get started. Now, in terms of the actual columns, you can reorganize these just by dragging and dropping it into different areas. You'll notice that there's two unique columns in here that are not in the tooltip currently, and those are out of county and out of state owners. These may help you make your decision, but ultimately, so long as you're targeting good markets with good data, this does become something that will limit the data in that county. So you may be prioritized by this, but I would not disqualify markets magically because they might not have a lot out of account or obviously owners. And then additionally, one other thing that you can do with the market data table is continue to add other data points using your tooltip. You may have noticed all the columns will reflect what you've chosen in your tooltip. So you could strategically use that tooltip preference to put in data points that you might want to see on a cadmium level. Just know that the same logic will apply that we talked about in our market research, right? If we're looking at 5 to 10,000 acres, the median is not going to be that useful. Neither is the gene or the price breaker. Now that on the table it's the same concept. Don't get hugged up on that data if it will only get to 2 larger data set because it just will not give us the information we want. If you have any other questions on the Tooltip or the Market data table, please feel free to reach out to us @hellocataninsights co. Or you can always reach out to us on the bottom right of the platform. 