Meeting Title: Viewing County vs. Zip Data
Date: Aug 25

Transcript:
 
Them: In this video. We're going to go ahead and just compare the county level data to these equivalent data. In this video, we're going to go ahead and just compare the county level data to these equivalent data, and we'll talk about different ways to utilize both the point of both and why each one's really, really useful in their own right for different purposes. So let's go ahead and just pop into a state. When we're looking at a state, of course we'll want to filter for that state and blow on our table. We have some data points selected on our tooltip, so you can go ahead and select the ones that relevant to you that you feel are useful for convincing yourself that you like a market. And we're going to start with accounting data, just looking at community data from this perspective. If we find accounting that we tend to like. And it's just going to be important that we're looking at data points on both equations and heat map, data points that matter to us. Right. So at this point, we know that we should be looking at an acreage band that we intend to go after or doing research on an unengaged train. We will do after initially, we might start around the whole county lose. Kind of looks like it's doing very well here in Washington. So if we look at a data point that will help us understand what really quickly is moving pretty well. Is it kind of comp heavy and have a lot of data? It looks like it does have quite a bit of comps. So this particular time you watch it and seems to be doing very well. Wanted to kind of look at the county in its entirety. You can come in here, take off. Take off the heat map overlay, and just kind of look at the. Drained and idea of what you're working with that's not always pertinent. Some places it's going to see maybe Georgia, maybe North Carolina, you might want to do this, but absolutely not a requirement to look at a county like this in any way, shape or form is completely preferential. And then once you have a good idea of what you're looking at, you can do a couple things. You can analyze this county from the data points you have that selected in a broad way. You can actually drill down even further to certain acreage bands and try and analyze whether or not it's worth targeting these little acreage bands as well. I tend to do just a quick glance at each agent. If I really want to focus on this counting and determine whether or not it's worth my time, then once I've determined is worth my time, I'll add that to my markets and anti attitude, both of those tabs I just mentioned at the same time. And so once I've added that county it's just a matter of going to those without doing some for the review if I'd like. There's plenty of investors who stop here and kind of go county wide. But there's also benefit in bringing this down to this global. Before we go there, just some other useful tips when we're on the countywide perspective in the my markets area, if we've added this county, this county should show up for us to use to look at in. The nice thing here is we're only looking at whatever we've added to our markets. In this case, what I might do is drill down a little bit. Further into the acreage ranges, and when I'm doing that, is very beneficial to leverage other tooltip data points. So we just went through the data points on this tooltip, and what might be useful, something that I might look at, is maybe medium price over timeframe. I'm seeing if that's increased. Or decreased. Maybe even looking at medium price breaker and comparing that to the sold, excuse me, active and comparing those together to C whether or not that price trader holds true from the 5 to 10 range. So you can start to get an idea counting wide for this acreage range whether or not it holds up to your standards. And it continues to perform. Now, there's also leverage that you can kind of glean from this tool to. And that's. That's going to be on the zip code. Level. Once we determine that we like this county, if we're stopping there, if we're not doing it as if though analysis, then you can shoot on a mailer for this particular range and particular accounting. But there are a lot of investors who also will take this and say, well, that's not enough for me. In particular, I want to analyze this from the perspective of these codes as well. And that might include looking at a little bit more that refined data sets. What I mean by that is first, we'll want to kind of bring this back to the view that we had. We're going to look at 500 acres. We're also going to look at, let's just say sold comps in this instance. But again, Celtic may also be very beneficial, just depending on what data set I'm looking at. I'm going to then once I know that I like this county, I'm going to filter for it. Once I'm here, I want to move to the zip code level and any filters that we had other than obviously the state in the county, will be removed. But now we're looking at the zip codes. You'll notice I'm still on the 5 to 108 range, so I'm looking at these codes individually in their entirety. But if you do want to analyze these acreage value exchange, this is where you can really refine your market research and just look at the data within one zip code at a time for all of its value. Now, this code in particular is quite large. 9832 and it kind of spans a ton of real estate. I would not suggest just outright making a decision on this zip code by looking at the data on your tooltip. Now, it's super, super supportive of a good nailer, right? Of a solid market. And our data points are screaming that this is, this is fine to target in terms of zip code. I will say, when you're looking at Zipodata, you need to be a little bit more lenient on the zip code. We're dealing with less data purpose of code than we would be looking at the Empire County. And you have to also understand that counties are made up. Of multiple zip codes. Some of the zip codes kind of split that colony in half in different random ways, as you can see here. And because of that, you might have comps in across the county that don't make it into one zip code. And so that's why. And you'll see some of these. Codes just have a lot active, no sold. You'll see this one has no actives and hardly any sold. And so it's very important to analyze if you're using these code data to analyze at the analyzer computer and use that so from 2 to 5 acres I might never find myself in 90. 53 3. Even if I am marketing to this county, you'll notice also if there are any blank areas where they're not keep mapped at all. It's mainly because there's no data to work off of, so you might be able to pull up the tool tip and see if there's just nothing happening here. And because of that, we're probably going to stay clear. If we move to other acreage ranges, we could also leverage price for acre data. So 2 to 5 is a good example. You have to be more over 5 to 10 physical level. Take a look at this to load once I'm here. I'm just doing the same analysis validating. Do these as a zip codes, they hit the mark. They really perform well when I'm looking at them individually. Now, another thing to notice. I mentioned this just a second ago, but the zip code data, you'll need to be a little bit more lenient because now you're not looking at the entire county. Now, of course, if you do see great numbers in accounting. Excuse me, In a zip code. And it's because there's comps. Comps. Then you should be fine. But as UEC smaller data sets in these zip codes, these codes are moderately sized. So this probably is not the best example of moderately Science of code. But as we do see those refined data sets, it's more reasonable to see lower cell through rate or, excuse me, lower comps. Sulfur rate should remain relatively stable, and we can still use that. Likely in our normal. Our normal percentages. It's just a matter of making sure that we have a constant validate an offer if we get a lead here. Right. So in this particular zip code, it looks like 5Tenacitors is doing wonderful. You'll see that the medium prices is fairly high. The price rate is very high supporting that. So this particular account we might do well, the last thing we'll want to do is just make sure that we're targeting the data from the zip code that we find the most valuable. That might be the 5 to 10 range, but also might be all of the data massive code. And if it's performing well across the board, I would have no hesitation, interest, say, hey, I want that data. I'm not going to focus on any further analysis. I'm just going to come down to what you, as a team or as a solo entrepreneur, find the most beneficial for your business, for your marketing. Now, I did this light analysis here on the market research map, but oftentimes I'll actually find myself coming down here adding these codes as I see fit, and I'll actually do this analysis on my markets map. So I'm going to come down here, add some of my favorite markets, and then we'll go ahead and move over to my market to do a quick review of the difference between marketing research and my markets. When looking at. Now that we're in our markets, one thing you'll need to do before hopping to that set is toggling that data on. You'll notice that this data is currently being keyed out against one another for multiple things. We're looking at the acreage range of 0.200. And the heat out of active properties. So don't be frightened when you see this, especially if you've already filtered for it. Then you will want to switch off these as you, as you target specific properties or maybe specific acreage sizes, and we can start using this for different levels of analysis. Now, we already know that we like the concrete, we like the cell free. So using other data points to heat map and prioritize our marketing could be more valuable. Right? If we're using market, we can prioritize by how quickly we feel the markets we are, how long properties tend to sit. We also start looking at price data or even gd, right. And if we know that it's easier to price and one's a code over another, it may affect how quickly we market to one zip code versus another. Even if we previously thought it was good. Don't forget, this is a chance to continue drilling deep into certain acreage ranges. This is going to become more and more useful as you create an SOP around your market research. I wouldn't say that every day you can actually come here in stumble round trying to look for value. And that's a very dangerous way to lose Taiwan your calendar and spend an odd amount of time looking for new markets when there's plenty of data to use for your marketing. Okay, that is the county data versus the zip code data and the different ways you can leverage it. As we continue to see this data improve over time as the market improves. Just keep an eye out for the ways you can leverage data because this is great from a price perspective, understating the amount of market value that we're seeing in certain areas. It's super useful from a volume perspective as we can come over here and look to the county and just move forward. Pre confidently that the entire company is doing well. If you have any questions, you can reach out to us at. You can always reach us. Reach us at the bottom right of your platform. 