Meeting Title: Intro to Market Research
Date: Aug 25

Transcript:
 
Them: How these are related sites. And in today's video we will be looking at market research. This is really give you a brief introduction of this tab in the platform. You'll be doing a lot of your initial searching here for new markets. You'll be looking at accounting data, zip code data. Generally there is so much going on that we do recommend starting at the state level. That'll help you with your analysis, just giving you more concise dataset. You can also do things like target a specific range of data. You can look at the data as a whole first and get a pulse on which counties are doing really well or you can kind of dig in deeper if you wish. However, there's no guarantee that a good range in county is doing well with the whole county overall is not that the disposition will be an easy process. So just keep that in mind. You can also change the Heat app data point, whatever you might want to look at you can use that here to give yourself a sense of what's happening in that state. You can also modify what you're looking at by using your tooltip and choosing different data points to look at. As a heads up, we'll talk about this in a future video. In terms of how you can best leverage it. If you don't want to go through the entire state as you should. Because you should not want to. What you'll do is you'll come down to the bottom table and you'll actually use this to implement some filters that will stop you from having to go county by county by county. And the reason why that's beautiful is because there are some companies that will just fall to a wayside whether it's based on how we act or properties they have. Or maybe they're pending demand on whatever it is. We can start putting in filters to say, well, we want greater or equal to maybe nine. That's going to start shaving off results from the whole state I'm looking at on the heat map. This is a great way to start giving the initial idea of what I want to search for, and it'll allow me to continue to hone my results and shape my results to what I would qualify as good. 