Meeting Title: BONUS: Finding Pools of Liquidity with Acreage Bands
Date: Aug 25

Transcript:
 
Them: How yit are you? Related sites. And in this video, we're going to be talking about how to find pools of liquidity using acreage ranges. So in our last video, you might recall recall that we were looking at New Hampshire ruling graph and counting specifically, and we're trying to find those liquidity using SIPCOs. So the cool thing about using the cozy integrations is they can actually pair together very well. Now, you can still look at acreage bands as separate terms of codes. What I mean is, you can look at them at the countywide perspective. So if we're going to look at a county, we vet it. We call it good. Most of the time. You'll catch me adding that to my markets and doing a deeper level of analysis there. But in this case, I've just gone ahead and filtered it for this particular county. So I'm going to take a look at the acre changes here on the market research map. Now I tend to focus on a little bit larger than 5 acres. So even though there's options for this below 5 acres, I'm just going to focus on the H fans above that. Now, looking at this, Downey, what I really want to do is the same analysis that I'm doing. How do you want it just on a very particular range of data. So 5 centimeters in this case. I'm trying to bet it. Make sure it checks out. This looks great. If I'm finding that I like that, I'm moving up the acreage band and I'm continuing to do that analysis. Now, this may be an interesting case where every band seems to be doing well. And that's fantastic. That would allow me to decide whether or not I wanted to market counting y or focus on a specific band. If, for whatever reason was one was not performing. Well, let's go a little bit lower. Even that seems to be well in this county. And so Grafton county might be a bad example of this. So what I will do is I'm going to go ahead and reset my filters. I'm going to go ahead and take a look at another county and maybe trying to identify this pool of liquidity. Let's go down to Pennsylvania. Let's look at a county that's not too crazy hot in terms of demand. County, little bit too building there. Okay, let's go ahead and look at accounting here in Virginia. Two little Theta. We're looking at one, two here. So this is really important, and this will definitely slow you down. What I want to do just to kick things off, because I do want to look at 5, 200. Acres or 5, 2000 or maybe even 0.200. I'm looking for specific info opportunities. Now, this is obviously going to allow me to see a lot more data that I was just seeing. So that's a great reason to just keep in mind that the filters you have active not only on your table. Below but on your hp. So let's go ahead and look at Bedford County, Pennsylvania. Move. Go ahead and filter for the state and the county. And now looking at this, this is where I can kind of start that analysis. Okay. I like it. From becoming my perspective, what happens when I break this down by acreage 5 to 10 seems to do decent over the course of a year. It doesn't go once it does turn once. It does also have high details on market, so that's just something to keep an eye on. But if I keep going higher and higher, seems like these markets is consistent. It seems like my numbers get a little bit better, and they just only get better as you go higher. So I'm just finding great markets today. I would say that out of all of these, even these really large market agencies in this county seem to be doing well with exceptionally low days on market. So probably not the best example, even though the salt rate here isn't abnormally great, I would say it's still pretty strong given all the other age ranges are doing well as well. Then when we go back to becoming wide perspective, that's how we can justify these sell rates as well. So let's go ahead and once again let's reset our filter, filters. This is a great learning opportunity. Just keep us honest in terms of how we find these. If we're looking at counties again, usually I start on the sea level. But the purpose of this video, I am just kind of hunting around. But let's go ahead and look at a county that is yellow, isn't bright yellow. So once we find something that isn't quite bright yellow that seems to have a decent amount of comps, we'll go ahead and pause there. Okay, so Scott County, Kentucky. It's going to take a look at that. I'm doing an analysis here. Just light analysis using the data points. I wouldn't say the 6, 1, 2, 3 is my favorite. However, everything else does. Check my box. I think urban boxes. I think that this is a county that's doing fairly well. I can see how in this area, certain acreage bands. Might not be doing better than others. I've just given the area of extra metro areas, so I'm looking at 2 to 5 acres. It seems like there is two active and the sultry over the course of a year as well. Six months as well, but it usually seems to take six months to turn so. I might not be marketing to two, five years now if I'm at five to 10, you'll start to see that pick up. We have about 50% anything right now. This is a great market. And if we go even further up that list of 8 bit ranges, you'll start to notice. Okay, so these numbers are starting to dip quite a bit, but they are still doing well over the course of a year. Now the pending demand and even the six month damage isn't enough for me to justify this. So even though this looks good to you, but personally, if I'm looking at huge ages trying to disqualify certain parts of market or certain data points from my marketing so that I don't waste time with properties that are not doing well. Or not in demand in an area. This is something on my password. 10,000, 20 years. And if I go higher and it continues to decrease in demand, I may, I may continue to just stay below 5 acres or 10 acres in this area. Now I'm gonna go ahead and jump up to the highest just to kind of see what's up there. It seems like there's just a minimal amount of data here. When I'm looking at UT ranges, this is a great way to determine whether or not I want to spend my time in a specific county. If I'm starting to realize that every acreage range is not producing that many comps. Now, that's just a personal preference. Something you can also do to gauge whether or not it's going to be something that fits your preferences is you can move to zip codes and you're going to use the age of ranges here as well. So it looks like there's only two zip codes. Maybe three. Yeah, maybe three. Here. One, two, three. So in these threes of codes, we're using the same concept. We're going down the acreage range list, and we're just qualifying these zip codes. Hey, do 10, 20 acre properties work well here? Do they not? And so you're trying to find the areas that are that have the most demand. Have the most turn. And that's really how you identify these pools of liquidity. Once you find these areas, that's something that you can really take notes on, add to your mind marketing campaigns. We'll talk about using case stigmas, all this type of thing in a moment in RKP's video, but ultimately that's what I would do in order to find pools of liquidity using API changes. Now, something to keep in mind is just because a specific acreage range does not seem to be performing in any given market, whether it's zip code or accounting, that does not mean that there's not an appeal to be made right? That is not something we can always prepare for. But if 10 to 20 acres is doing fantastic in 24 years is just not cutting it, there's always a chance you do 24 year property and split that right? That does take external understanding of subdividregulations of the market was possible, Anya, setbacks that are required, things like that. But at the end of the day, this is a general guideline for finding these areas. If you have any questions at all, please feel free to reach out at. Hello, Allen Insights Co. Or you can always reach us at the bottom right of the platform. 