Meeting Title: BONUS: Finding Pools of Liquidity with Zip Codes
Date: Aug 25

Transcript:
 
Them: How do you re lay insights? In this video, I'm going to be walking you through how to leverage zip codes to find pools of liquidity and. Well, what's a pool of liquidity? It's an area that seems to outshine these surrounding markets that's really doing well in terms of demand. Volume and even other data points. So this term is likely coined by Clayton himself. Maybe add some of these other gurus use the term as well, but very commonly known in the investing only investing space. And that's because there aren't certain markets where folks find themselves in what's called a honey hole. Those honey holes are just producing and producing more leads, more deals. Yet they all comes from identifying initially that that area is a pool of liquidity, that cash can be made really fast in the market due to the demand and this video, which stock market is turning. So what we'll do is we're going to look at a market just to start. I'm going to look at New Hampshire here, for example, and when we're looking at New Hampshire again, we've talked about going to the zip level. But before I go to zip level, there's a couple of things that happen there. Would I prefer to find eight goods of code in a good market? Or a good market. I think there's always a case to be made that a good zip code is a zip code. However, the case is always going to be stronger for a market if it's doubled up in that level of demand, whether it's accounting wide and then also zip code. So if you do find a good in a good county. I feel like there's more weight behind that choice to market there. Now, if you find a decent zip code, We tend to avoid that area unless, for whatever reason, you have ties to that market. You know very well that there's, you know, there's some opportunity there and another fashion otherwise, if we find a good subcode, otherwise bad county, I'll say bad, but really means a lack of demand is in that county. We may still be able to market there, we may be able to still do deals there. Really, what it comes down to is our risk tolerance. If we can't guarantee the entire market is doing well. Well, it's very possible that that zip code is an anomaly, but it's also possible that it's just performing well. And so it's really important to look at the last year in qualify bags of code, make sure that it's legitimate, make sure that it's got proof to back your decision in order there. So if we go ahead and look at some of the counties here in New Hampshire, I'm going to go ahead and go to 500 acres. I'm going to choose six months. Sold. To see where a lot of these come lie. Seems like the northern the United States doing really well. But let's look at Grafton county, for example. If we look at Graphton County, I've got a deal here. This is very beautiful land. But I'm curious. The zip codes are probably going to be fairly large in this county, although I haven't looked myself. First and foremost what I'm doing is verifying that I like the numbers of this county. I'm verifying just like every other process in terms of finding a boot county. I can go get my tools tip. I'm using those data points on the left hand side of the tooltip. Maybe some other data points if I'm useful for this analysis. But then from there I'm hopping down to the zip code level and I'm going to go ahead and even filter graphic I just to make it easier on this map visually. And then we're going to go ahead and let's just try and see if we can pick up this market. Oops. Excuse me. So now that we can see all the zip codes. Okay, I was kind of off here. There are a ton of zip codes inside of Graphic county or New Hampshire, which is great news, to be honest. Looking as of codes here, this gives us a lot of room to play, but also segments the market very well so that we know if the comps are very well spread out. That's a benefit of some of these counties that have a ton of zip codes. For those counties that don't have a lot of codes, it is sometimes harder to understand where you want to market, as some of those comps might lie in one part of the zip code still because they take a large port of accounting. That's why it's always important too. Just double check your red venue zone comps just in case. Just make sure you understand where they're appearing. In this particular case, I can actually come in here and see that in three months, this particular zip code 03741 seems to be doing well. It moves about 50% every three months. The pending cell three is zero. However, with what's happened in the past year, it seems like it's pretty consistent in terms of demand. And you'll notice that you can start to find places that move. Multiple times in a year. So this might be, for example, news twice in the year, potentially. Looks like there might be some. Might be some subdivisions here, might be some areas with larger properties. So that's also something you can keep into consideration when you're looking at this map. Even come down here and use the map. Visually as a 3D interface or map to understand is the terrain, is how this world is manageable. What can I do here? Are there a lot of roads? So just get that idea of that zip code. Now, when we're looking at the zip code, another thing I like to do is particularly filter for our heat. Map by rather heat map by sell through rate. I also like to leave all of the zip codes present, usually from my own peace of mind, so that I know I'm doing a full review. That means that I'm not adding as many filters, if any, on the data table down below, and then I'm also coming through and just giving a quick glance to these zip codes to see is it really anywhere that throws a red flag. You'll notice that a lot of these comps seem to be very spread out. This may be a market that we decide, hey, maybe we just market the entire county. However, if we are trying to apply liquidity. Maybe we're trying to really capitalize on our marketing budget. This may be a situation where I find it as a pill that just seems to be outperforming the rest. This would go here in particular seems to be moving despite having low numbers or low amounts of cops from 500 to 6 moving almost two times per year. I'd be curious to even go into these smaller ranges despite there not being a lot of data, so I'll be wary of that. But I'm curious to go to these small ranges and just ensure that it kind of holds up. Just looking at 5% acres, for example, it really does seem to do so. This is an area where it's set to turn about five. Four to five times per year, I would say, depending on any given time, how many active properties there are. So right now it seems to be three and one spending. So what we may see that number increase has still increased. It's pretty awesome. A lot of these codes seem to show similar numbers like this, but you'll notice that there are a lot of blank zip codes that have hardly any data. That is incredibly important to understand because when we're looking at 5% acres, if we are mailing by that criteria, then we're going to realize very quickly it's not very smart to target 5% acres in these counties might be case that there's no 510 acres in these counties. Excuse me. So codes both times are. But if there are 5 to 10 acres acre properties and these episodes, why the heck would I be marketing to them if there's zero comps over the past year? So that's a great way to not only save marketing dollars, but identify places that are really moving well and just target those. This is a great way throughout the entire United States to capitalize on data that nobody else has access to right now. Right. So you are really out of competitive advantage here. And as you continue to stack that data in different markets on your list, your marketing list and your marketing campaigns. All of that will continue to compound value over time. That is capitalizing on zip codes, using them and leveraging them to five pools of liquidity. The animity questions. Feel free to reach out to us. Hello atlindocytes.com where you can always reach out to us. 