Meeting Title: BONUS: Leveraging Zip Codes to Turn Bad Markets into Good Ones
Date: Aug 25

Transcript:
 
Them: King at the county from its entirety. Limited. In this video, we're going to talk about how to use zip codes to turn a back market into a good one. Now, just a disclaimer here. This is going to take a certain level of risk tolerance. Of course, one of the things that we always recommend is looking at a county from its entirety, confirming that looks good and then drilling deeper into it. However, there are opportunities to find zip codes in non performing markets that are just doing well. And so the reason why we're having a press tolerance is because at the end of the day, there's no guarantee that a zipco is performing in a non performing market. That sets of codes, consistency. Right. That's something that you can kind of back now, obviously, because we have data up until year in the past, you will want to leverage that in order to qualify as much as possible that the zip code is actually a solid, consistent trending zip code with good data and good comps. So that's just something to keep in mind as well. But let's go ahead and hop into a state and try and find any table. So if I'm looking at Arizona, for example, these all have a little bit too many comps for my maybe there's one count here that sold 100 active. Yes, Nothing. They have too many comps. They have too many active properties where you feel comfortable being seen in this market. La Paz county here in Arizona seems to be doing pretty decently for my own preferences. However, that's one tiny county in terms of this entire state, so let's go ahead and use one county here that looks like it's doing well overall, but that just has so much going on, we might disqualify it. And let's drill a little deeper. Now that we have zip code data on the screen, let's go ahead and flip to heat map for comp data. We will start here just to kind of vet that these zip codes have comps within them. Right now we're looking at 0.200 acres. So in my personal opinion, I probably prefer to see 5 to 100 range treat these because they are kind of large, almost like small counties if we have enough comp data. Looks like some of these counties do have plenty of comps. And looking at the zip codes here, you'll quickly see those areas that don't have any const at all. You can filter for those. You'll notice a lot of zeros here. As I kind of get quite here, you'll notice that I'm just hunting around for opportunities. While not help county here seems decent. Well, I want to make sure is that it's decent across the board treating like a small little county. Okay, I'm going to go ahead and just look at naval Gunning for a second. There's quite a few codes. I thought it was. Excuse me. I'm looking at one zip code. Okay. And I like where this is going. 58k is the invites for 3 months, 80k for 6 months, and this is 2.5acres. What happens when we get a little higher? Okay, three month demand is D6 multimeters decent. One year is decent as well. This is actually pretty expected as you kind of go from one year down to pending. If one year ago overly of one year salt three and it's 100 we expect the six month we cut half which it is and again cut half more time, which it almost is. But the price here for 5% acres is remarkably low, which is surprising when we look at 2 to 5 acres and we see 58, 2 as a median as well. 58K, 80K. So this is very surprising. We're looking at 5% here, so that drops so much. Let's look at 10 to 20 acres. Yeah, so this is even lower than this is not pricebreaker, but this is still lower than our 225 gig range. This is pretty surprising, I will say. There's still enough comps here and the demand looks decent. So it's not that I would shy away from a market like this, but I would have to be okay with really small deals. And in all honesty, out of three k's of median, you might be looking at a max of 40 to 60 thousand dollars for the high end of this market for the sacred range. So this is an example I'm particularly fond of. Navajo County. Down here, closer to Pine Top. Leak side looks like it has less comps, but it is doing better. And the price is definitely higher. Let's just check around in different sizes. Yeah, this is doing a lot better. So this is E5901. 24 years of doesn't seem to have anything going on. In the 40 dungeons. Also, it looks like 2 to maybe 20 acres. There are enough comps to justify maybe marketing out here now. And one thing I will do is I want to look at revenue data, mobile data, and see where are these comps. Are they mostly down here? This is kind of large. So as I'M looking at the zip code, I might polygon on the satin. I know where I'm doing these comps are. And I can choose to market from 2 to maybe 20 acres and maybe strike a deal out here. Now, you have to remember this is a zip code. So it's coming from Navajo County, Arizona. And if I switch back to Noble county now, that county is massive. Absolutely massive. I would have never looked at this county personally. Andy C75 active pending celebrity is 4%. The market is barely moving every year, but the price is extremely low. How do I never look at those individual ranges down here in this particular zip code near Pine Top Lakeside, I would have never known that I could find an opportunity down here. So again, it takes a little bit of a solid. But at the end of the day, if you can look over the course of a year at the data here and feel comfortable with what you've seen, then this could be something that you use to leverage and find opportunities and other investors can't. See? If you have any other questions on leveraging zip codes to more or less turn bad markets into good ones, then feel free to reach out to us. Hello habitinsights.co or you can always reach out to us on the bottom random platform. 