Meeting Title: BONUS: Avoid Self-Sabotaging Your Market Choices
Date: Aug 25

Transcript:
 
Them: Audi. Sorry, Lane Insights. In this video we're going to talk about how we can accidentally self sabotage our marketplaces and limit our market options by using too many filters. So let's just start off by choosing a state. I'm going to choose Tennessee here. Looking at Tennessee banking, see the state looks like it's a good shape. However, I do want to change my equal change. Maybe even my heat map just to give me an accurate representation. Maybe I'll see where this is moving fastest. Maybe I want to see the most cost in the last year. Or maybe I just prefer maybe looking at current demand. If I want to keep my current command, I say, okay, look, it looks like all of these are moving extremely fast currently. But I want something more low key. Maybe I choose one of these other counties that I bet and I call good. Copies. Counter here, for example. Looks like it's pretty decent counting. Nothing crazy, but obviously nothing terrible. Let's just say that I want to mimic. Copycat is kind of in this same boat. I'm going to come down here and use copy count, use my standard. Let's just say I want to look for counties with an active count between 20 and 100. Copy county will stay in here, but obviously when we shoot off quite a few counties, what else does County Coffee or Copy Cow. We have that's. The it has cell rate for six months above 60%. Maybe I want to find that. Awesome. So now I still have I need more narrow view, but these counties may be doing very well for what I prefer. Now if I want to also consider that dieselmark SLA Coffee county but it is pretty good average days market a little high. So maybe I tell myself, hey, I want to use a market that's lower than Coffee Challenge. But I would include Copy Johnny as well. So I'm going to look at my average days on market which is less than or equal to 225 days on market. That's what counties at Copy Copy stays in this view. And it's stringent already asset little by little. So what else can we do that kind of makes Coffee County? Well, it seems to have a penny sell tree but over 10%. I love that. I want to see other current demand and that was why I started this search for the first place. So let's just put something that's over 10%. See, now we have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 of different counties that we can look at in the entire state of Tennessee. And this is fairly limited. When you know how many counties are in Tennessee. I don't know the number of head. However, I did just look it up in our 95 counties in Tennessee. So nine out of 95 looking pretty slim for us. Not to mention we made this qualified some of these counties, if we had that findings, we only met them that we don't like. But in this particular case, if we're only looking at nine counties, we're very quickly going to be running out of options, especially if we continue to add more filters. And so if there's something that's blatantly obvious about these values that we don't like, let's just say the amount of cops balls do, maybe I want to see 20 or more. Of these ones are just not cutting it. This is only going to continue. To shrink a set in her single run, we won't have the ability to make decisions off of all the potential markets that might be doing well. So it's very important to choose data sets or a filters on our data that matter most to us and that are a little bit more broad. Even if you have a lot of filters. If they're more broad, you'll still have more results. I like to look at data points like celtrate, and when things are percentages, I'm okay with maybe a 5 to 10% variance. So you'll see me use that when I speak about these things. If I want to see greater or equal to 10, for example, I might make that five, and then I might keep an eye out for anything that's 5 to 10 and just kind of make digital coin. Notice there's nothing there, but the same is true for sloping over six months. If I chose 50. Oops. There's another calendar that I would miss, and it just keeps going on and on. I can continue to broaden the scope of these filters and force myself. Out. Of that living view. So this is how to avoid limiting your marketing choices. If you have any questions, you can always reach out to us. Hello AlanInsights co. Or you can reach out to us at the bottom right corner of the platform. 