Meeting Title: Leveraging the Tooltip
Date: Aug 25

Transcript:
 
Them: How do you use R ulan Insights? And in this video, we're going to be talking about the tooltip. When you're conducting market research, we'll be talking about all the different tooltips in here. To a degree, we'll be addressing where you can use that in the platform. The impact it has and how to leverage it to the best of your ability. So let's go ahead and look at the tooltip references on the far right of your screen. When you do log into the platform, the far left column, you'll notice, has a lot of parameters that are very specific to a more broad analysis, and this can be used on the county level or the zip code level. But what's beneficial about all of these is even though you might be able to use them on smaller data sets, they can all be used on a larger data set. So think countywide, maybe zip code wide analysis. When we're looking at 0.2 to 100 acres, it's useful to see all of this. Now, we can also use this on other larger acreage ranges, like a 5 to 100 or maybe 5 to 10,000 acres as well. But as we drill down into certain markets, whether that's a counter zip code, we can still use these. So that's the benefit of using these data points. In the first column. When we start looking at the set column in the third column, you'll notice that it resembles the median and price per acre figures, as well as what we like to call our genie, which we'll talk about shortly. In terms of median and price per acre, you have to just consider the data set that you're looking at. The median is always going to be in the middle, so there's always going to be data above it and below it. And so for that reason, when we're looking at a data set that's just very large, whether it's 0.2, 100 or 1 of those larger acreages. Acreage ranges. This data just becomes less and less useful. So if I were to look for the median price from 0.2 to 100 acres, the chances are it's not going to have a real representation of that market. But it's also not going to really give me any useful information other than a maybe a soft check to make sure, hey, this market has properties that are generally mid market. If it's sitting too low with price data or it's sitting too high, we'll run some other issues. For example, we might not we might not find ourselves looking at a county that we can make profit, or we might find ourselves in the county or market that ultimately is too difficult to get leads in. So for that reason, the median, the price break, rate points, all of these will be more useful when we're looking at a small existence. So let's go ahead and choose some data points initially, just to talk about how we would use that to find the markets. And the first thing I would do is include active. I'm going to include pending. I like seeing that current demand that I like also seeing that in the sell through rate as well depending and sold amounts here. This is very useful when you're thinking about how many comps are in the market. But sell to rate really shines when we were looking for how quickly network is really turning. So both of these kind of work in tandem and you can imagine if you're only ok, so I'll do rate. You might miss the fact that some counties or markets have no data and if you're only looking at sold amounts, you might be missing the fact that this all three sucks. So we could really drill down by looking at these together. And what I like to do. Who is focus on maybe three months, maybe six months, and then include the sell through rate data points for maybe pending maybe three months or six months as well. This gives me a good accurate representation of what's been happening for the past half year. And I can see that current demand that I'm interested in seeing. As well. Just make sure that the counter that I'm looking at is currently in demand. Otherwise I might also choose based on marketplace. I'm hovering over six months in all these different data points. I'm going to choose that one as well. It's important to know that this is being with average days on market for all the comps sold in the last six months, that's a little bit different than three in terms of the median data points or the price breaker. Generally, I won't get too hug up on looking at this. Initially, I might include a price for the median or maybe even a medium acreage range, but it's not going to be. It's really not going to be as pertinent. So this is by no means gospel creativity. Here to find markets, whether counters or zips that you like. And maybe that does include looking at the median information or the vicebraker information. So just keep that in mind as you look around. This is the beautiful thing about this, is now we can start analyzing these data or these markets with this data. And the way I like to look at this is I like looking from the top down on my tooltip, like analyzing it. Kind of like a story where I'm understanding that many more and more as I go down the tooltip and I'm using these data points to disqualify whether or not I like this market. So we're disqualified. And understandable or not, it's something that I can. I can justify charging if I can't justify targeting it. I really don't need to spend too much more time looking into that market unless I want to drill in a tiny bit deeper look at these zip codes and just do kind of a final polls check on that market to make sure. Hey, maybe is there one suppose that's outperforming the rest? Or maybe is there anything worth marketing to here? So that is using the tooltip for your general market analysis. If you do find a market, let's say you do choose a market and you come down here. And you filter for that. Once you have this data set, technically. Now, this is a good point in time to analyze these zip codes in their entirety. You can look at 0.200 acres, maybe look at 500. But this is going to allow you to get a read on each of the code and understand whether or not it's worth marketing to and worth spending your market dollars. Pigeon Forge is just very competitive in Tennessee, and so in this particular code, I might avoid it, but you can see that some of these zip codes really carry the brunt of the work in this entire market. So that's just something to consider, knowing that this zip code down here is likely the largest of code, or if not a close second. And yet it has hardly any comps. It's mostly mostly mountain ranges. So that's just something to consider. You really want to focus on marketing to the places that have proof and just show that if you were to get a deal there, it would likely sell. So just keep that in mind as you're using the data points on the tooltip and you really want to be using these efficiently. Once you find maybe the account users code that you like, you can really make sure that you're adding those to your markets and that's where you'll do kind of secondary review on those markets where you're able to. There's plenty of investors who use this and kind of use at scale in order to give volume out the door. And so there's no further analysis needed. There will be other investors, and this might include you that prefer to say, okay now that I like a certain zip code or maybe a certain county, I want to drill into each age range and I want to see maybe different data points. Maybe I want to heat map this differently. And this can happen on the right user page. I generally do this on my markets. That's only because usually when we're on our markets. We're only looking at data that we like. Right. We're only looking at marketing. Sending. We already vetted and called. Good. So in this situation, I would be able to heat map by different data point since I'm looking at a small data set. I'd be able to prioritize based on this or make decision based on this. And I'd also be able to look at some other more pertinent data points than now since I'm looking at a 2 to 5 equal range. Makes sense. Now I can actually use the or compare that against the medium sold price. I can be using the price per acre. I can look at that compared to the genie as well. And so there's a lot more opportunity here when we're looking at a different smaller agent range. It just starts out with that more broad analysis using some of those data points on the left hand side. So that is kind of a breakdown of using the tooltip on market research. In my markets, when we do actually go towards campaigns area, you'll notice that these data points also exist there. We'll talk about that a little bit more in our campaigns videos. Just keep an eye out for that video. You can go ahead, hop over there if you like, and just get some information on why the tooltip would even be leveraged at all in that dairy platform. If you have any questions, just feel free to reach out to us@hellopacklandsights.co where you can always reach out on the bottom right of your platform. 