Meeting Title: BONUS: Identifying Markets for Infill Lots
Date: Aug 25

Transcript:
 
Them: Look out. How do you argue when insights? In this video, I'm going to be talking about how to identify markets for infilots. So normally what you might see me recommend is that we go over to our markets after we've added some counties, maybe some zip codes, and we do another type of analysis. There may be prioritization. Maybe we look at other data points, or maybe we just keep it as a tracker and we say, hey, we're marketing county. Why? They zip code wide and that's that. But when you're looking for invalu lots, it's not necessarily something that we want to analyze once. They're in our market S and that's because generally when we're looking at county wide theta, we're not looking at impulse or impulse are hard to categorize countywide. And so really what you want to do is look at a very zoomed in data set to identify those infill. Opportunities. What does that look like? Well, we do want to use as much data on the keepout as possible. This is probably the one time or I personally recommend using the entire United States because what we want is to validate volume. Usually when we're looking for an invaluable labs. Yes, we're looking for size. But in order to understand where there is a ton of invaluable lots moving, we need to see where there's a ton of other blots that have sold. And so what I would personally recommend first is adjusting some of the filter and the data set filter. And was the data set we're looking at. Okay, so I'm going to change our acreage range to a smaller data of data. I'm just say one to two years in this instance. Although there can be case we may not 2 to 5 acres to be a rural intel which usually on the outskirts of a city or There is also a case we made that less than one acre is also going to flat. So you can use a good range as we have from those options as well. But now what I'm going to do is I'm going to change my heat map to see the most amount of volume in the past year. So I'm looking at the most amount of sold comps and the goal here is to start finding those areas where most of the properties that I want to find for those inflow lots are selling. Now you'll see that there's certain areas of yellow, there are heat map here, but this really is going to do as much good, because once we start looking deeper and deeper, we're looking at individual counties. That's really not going to help us if we're trying to lock down the exact areas where these influx are selling. So I'm actually going to do one more thing and I'm going to move over to the zip code level. And now that the zip codes have loaded, you'll notice there is a lot of opportunity here. Now this is state United States wide. Right now all these code data is appearing and so you'll notice all of the places that have a lot of one to two acre properties that are selling in volume. This is a great way to start hunting for those involets. But how do you capitalize? How do you find natural places that you want to target? Well, the first thing that you want to do is come down here to the table, the market data table, and you just want to do, really what you would do with any data set. You want to start refining it in terms of active properties? Maybe we want to see a minimum, and maybe we can get an idea of coming through this data set and finding all the counties that seem to have, well, at least more than four or five active properties. And if I want to cut myself off at 5, I can do? Filter 5 or greater remaining. In this case, what I'll do is 10 or greater. From here, you'll start to notice a lot has been shaved off. Hundreds of video points of shakeoff. And so at this point, you'll notice I have a lot better of a table down here to look at. I can also start stacking some other filters. Maybe I can sort by those counties that have the most or least amount of comps in the past year. I'm actually going to remove all of these counties that have zero comps the past year. I might even go so far as to remove anything that's got less than 10. That's only going to continue to refine our search. But from here, we're looking at those areas that have a ton of comps. In the acreage range we're looking for now. There are some other ranges. Don't forget about that. So you have some other opportunities here. But what is nice in this opportunity to find influence is that you're really guiding yourself to places that that's only going to continue to refine our search. Here. This just opens up the opportunity to look for for markets with subdivisions or infill lot opportunities in them. So this is an example. You can tell that as I zoomed in here, it's clear that I found a subdivision have one that does not look fully built out or maybe at least has larger 1. To 2 acre properties in it. So this may be an opportunity to market 23 acres in this part. Two years of code 38574 and find an opportunity that works for me that maybe I can bond off to a builder or a retail buyer. Now, one thing that I would also consider is even though we're looking at zip codes and we're looking for invalides, it still doesn't change every concept of refining the search. I would still want to know that there's a strong sell rate in these markets, and I'm still going to want to do an analysis on that zip code to that extent. The one difference with subdivisions that's a little different than zip code, why did it also become white analysis or even in acreage range analysis, is that subdivisions kind of act as their own little market at times. And there are Realtors out there who are very much experts in these small subdivisions who have done multiple sales in these subdivisions. So I would do a couple of things in prepping for this type of marketing. I would find a partner who's familiar with the subdivision in particular that has marketed here, or the subdivision you're mailing to, or the area you're trying to find in the last. And then secondly, I would cross reference with something like Redfin or Zillow comp data just to get an idea of that subdivision, how well it works, if there's any other issues, and then maybe even looks at code wide for that company because there may be other areas in that zip code that are also performing well despite not being a part of a subdivision per se, but having a small amount of outskirts of a small town or city that happened to be an acre or two acres that a builder can come in and belong. So that's just one perspective here, I'm sure There are ways that you can interpret the state a little bit differently, but this is really why I would recommend doing in order to identify where there are infilts in certain markets. Usually I'm never going to be happy out of the zip code because this is a great way to refine your search and find hubs of sold comps and in the age of ranges that you're looking for after these apps. If you have any questions on this, you're more than welcome to reach out to us. Hello AlanInsights.co or you can reach out to us at the bottom right. 