Okay, so here's a quick update. I've skip traced two batches, one from Minnesota: Pine County, Pine County, Minnesota, and another one that I don't really remember where it came from. If I look at my order history real quick, all I know is that it was from two bad ... Let's see if I can find a batch that pulls from West Virginia. So it pulls from West Virginia, and I think a couple of other states that I picked several months ago, and I just paid for launch control, which was an amount of five hundred and thirty-six dollars. Um, and I'm working through importing, and it is a pain. Every time that I create ... that I import skip trace data, I have to map them individually, and that is just a pain. So I can see why people, when the restaurants already start to kind of like ... you know, figure out ways to get VAs because this is just too much busy work.

Okay, so I'm importing all of these. It looks like from Pine, Minnesota, I have 223 total prospects, 333 mobiles, and 351 landlords from the second batch, which includes West Virginia and I don't know how many other states, maybe three total. I have 577 prospects. So that is a total of exactly 800. Wow, that's really interesting. 577 plus 223. 800. Not exactly. My goal is going to be to get somehow 4,000 emails. So we'll see how that all plays out. Okay, okay. So that's step one.

I have to now reach out to their contact team because I had to use another EIN. And every time I look at IRS systems, it's unavailable, which is still like they open Monday to Friday, 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. Eastern Time. So let's see. Maybe I can get an EIN quote online because that's somewhat of a blocker.

Okay, so I have this random thought with launch control. It seems like they handle a lot of the regulation issues, and that's why, like, you know, they restrict Strict a lot. I am curious if I were to build my own market text marketing system, what is the easiest way to make sure that we're following the regulations for text messaging specifically? Because I'm thinking about having, I want to start, I want to look at images for text marketing, and Launch Control does not have that.

